THE ROAD TO SOMEPLACE BETTER

the business school and fight for our rights. Clif’s view of his own
situation at HBS is poignant:

I came from academic environments in which I had always
been “the only one” or, at best, “one of two or three.” So
initially I didn’t think much about there being six black stu-
dents. The situation seemed normal to me. Quite frankly,
initially, my primary concern was doing well academically
so that I could retain the Dwight D. Eisenhower Fellowship
that made it possible for me to attend the B-School. 1 felt
that I had a lot at stake. If I lost the scholarship, | would
return home empty handed. Roy turned my thinking
around when he made me see how thoroughly outrageous
the situation was with the black population at HBS.

Clif became the first to follow Roy’s lead, and together they
became the ringleaders. Their first course of action was to make
an appointment with the dean of students to voice their dissatis-
faction. They thought the dean would be easy to approach because
Clif knew him from his undergraduate days at the University of
Southern California.

However, Clif and Roy were disappointed with the results of
their initial meeting, Two opposing camps emerged: Roy and Clif
focused on the paucity of black students, which the dean took as a
personal criticism of his own efforts to increase the black student
population. Apparently, when the dean of students came to the
business school in 1966, he had taken personal responsibility for
increasing the number of blacks from three to six in just a year.
This was a 100 percent increase, which was not a bad statistic, as
far as he was concerned.

Not only did he take offense at Clif and Roy’s criticism of
the school’s progress in admitting black students, but he was also
insulted because he thought he deserved some praise and recog-
nition for his commitment to enrolling more black students. The
meeting ended with bad feelings and an unresolved situation.

100

HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL: 1967-1968

In fact, Clif claimed that this professor actually distanced himself
from the black cause that very day. Despite this setback, Clif and
Roy made a pact to take matters into their own hands until they
secured a meeting with the higher-ups.

After many failed attempts, they were finally granted a meet-
ing with some of the officers in the admissions department. Again
they were rebuked. According to Roy, the administration dis-
missed them by “You should be happy to be at Harvard.
Don’t waste your time on issues unrelated to your studies.” The
administration punctuated its reprimand by threatening to expel
them if they persisted with their “aggression,”

Roy, being who he was, responded in kind: “Do what you have
to do, but we will not back down.” The administration’s seeming
arrogance ignited both Roy and Clif. They hatched another plan
and reached out to their black classmates, making a case for why
we all should unite, It’s amazing to see what can happen when
you bring an entire population together for a cause (even if it is a
population of just six).

T'll never forget how the tide turned one night in the early
fall when Clif, Roy, and I gathered at Roy's home, as we fre-
quently did. Sometime during the evening, our conversation
turned to the underrepresentation of black students. This was the
first time I had had a chance to open up and express my concerns
about being the only black woman. It was then that I learned that,
Roy and Clif had already approached the administration a few
ies but had been rebuffed. As we talked through the evening,
it became clear to the three of us that we had to do something
for our own survival and for the survival of future generations of
black students at the B-School.

That night we made up our own marching orders. The next
day, Roy and Clif approached the other black students, Ted,
Carlson, and George. Ted and George became involved immedi-
ately, but Carlson never joined the cause. By the end of the week,
we had formed a team that turned out to be a good mix of talent,
skills, and personalities.

yin,

101

